doc/gitlab-geo/disaster-recovery.md, before:

# GitLab Geo Disaster Recovery

> **Note:** Disaster Recovery is in **Alpha** development. Do not use this as
> your only Disaster Recovery strategy as you may lose data.

GitLab Geo replicates your database and your Git repositories. We will
support and replicate more data in the future, that will enable you to
fail-over with minimal effort, in a disaster situation.

See [current limitations](README.md#current-limitations) for more information.

### Step 1. Promoting a secondary geo replica

> **Warning:** Disaster Recovery does not yet support systems with multiple
> secondary geo replicas (e.g. one primary and two or more secondaries).

We don't currently provide an automated way to promote a geo replica and do a
fail-over, but you can do it manually if you have `root` access to the machine.

This process promotes a secondary geo replica to a primary in the least steps.
It does not enable GitLab Geo on the newly promoted primary.

1. SSH into your **primary** and stop disable GitLab.

    ```
    sudo gitlab-ctl stop

    ```

    If you do not have SSH access to your primary take the machine offline.
    Depending on the nature of your primary this may mean physically
    disconnecting the machine, stopping a virtual server, reconfiguring load
    balancers, or changing DNS records (see next step).

    Preventing the original primary from coming online during this process is
    necessary to ensure data isn't added to the original primary that will not
    be replicated to the newly promoted primary.

1. SSH in to your **secondary** and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` to reflect its new status as primary.

    Remove the following line:

    ```
    ## REMOVE THIS LINE
    geo_secondary_role['enable'] = true
    ```

    A new secondary should not be added at this time. If you want to add a new
    secondary, do this after you have completed the entire process of promoting
    the secondary to the primary .

1. Promote the secondary to primary. Execute:

    ```
    gitlab-ctl promote-to-primary-node
    ```

1. Verify you can connect to the newly promoted primary using the URL used
   previously for the secondary.
1. Success! The secondary has now been promoted to primary.

### Step 2. (Optional) Updating the primary domain's DNS record

Updating the DNS records for the primary domain to point to the secondary
will prevent the need to update all references to the primary domain to the
secondary domain, like changing Git remotes and API URLs.

1. SSH in to your **secondary** and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Update the primary domain's DNS record.

    After updating the primary domain's DNS records to point to the secondary,
    edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` on the the secondary to reflect the new URL:

    ```
    # Change the existing external_url configuration
    external_url 'https://gitlab.example.com'
    ```

1. Reconfigure the secondary node for the change to take effect:

    ```
    gitlab-ctl reconfigure
    ```

1. Execute the command below to update the newly promoted primary node URL:

    ```
    gitlab-rake geo:update_primary_node_url
    ```

    This command will use the changed `external_url` configuration defined
    in `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`.

1. Verify you can connect to the newly promoted primary using the primary URL.

    If you updated the DNS records for the primary domain, these changes may
    not have yet propagated depending on the previous DNS records TTL.

### Step 3. (Optional) Add secondary geo replicas to a promoted primary

Promoting a secondary to primary using the process above does not enable
GitLab Geo on the new primary.

To bring a new secondary online, follow the [GitLab Geo setup instructions](
README.md#setup-instructions).

Commit message:

Make disabling the primary its own step
and emphasize the problem with allowing continued use of the primary.

doc/gitlab-geo/disaster-recovery.md, after:

# GitLab Geo Disaster Recovery

> **Note:** Disaster Recovery is in **Alpha** development. Do not use this as
> your only Disaster Recovery strategy as you may lose data.

GitLab Geo replicates your database and your Git repositories. We will
support and replicate more data in the future, that will enable you to
fail-over with minimal effort, in a disaster situation.

See [current limitations](README.md#current-limitations) for more information.

> **Warning:** Disaster Recovery does not yet support systems with multiple
> secondary geo replicas (e.g. one primary and two or more secondaries).

We don't currently provide an automated way to promote a geo replica and do a
fail-over, but you can do it manually if you have `root` access to the machine.

The following process promotes a secondary geo replica to a primary in the least steps.
It does not enable GitLab Geo on the newly promoted primary.

### Step 1. Disabling the primary

This step is necessary because any data added to the primary will not be replicated
to a newly promoted primary, and syncing the two after the secondary has been used as
a primary is not possible at this time.

1. Ensure the primary is inaccessible by users even if GitLab is started
   again. For example, GitLab will try to start up again if the node is restarted.

    Since there are many ways you may prefer to accomplish this, and many types of
    installations, we will avoid a single recommendation. You may need to:

    * Reconfigure load balancers
    * Change DNS records (e.g. point the primary DNS record to the secondary node just to stop usage of the primary)
    * Stop virtual servers
    * Block traffic through a firewall
    * Revoke object storage permissions from the primary
    * Physically disconnect a machine

### Step 2. Promoting a secondary geo replica

1. SSH in to your **secondary** and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` to reflect its new status as primary.

    Remove the following line:

    ```
    ## REMOVE THIS LINE
    geo_secondary_role['enable'] = true
    ```

    A new secondary should not be added at this time. If you want to add a new
    secondary, do this after you have completed the entire process of promoting
    the secondary to the primary.

1. Promote the secondary to primary. Execute:

    ```
    gitlab-ctl promote-to-primary-node
    ```

1. Verify you can connect to the newly promoted primary using the URL used
   previously for the secondary.
1. Success! The secondary has now been promoted to primary.

### Step 3. (Optional) Updating the primary domain's DNS record

Updating the DNS records for the primary domain to point to the secondary
will prevent the need to update all references to the primary domain to the
secondary domain, like changing Git remotes and API URLs.

1. SSH in to your **secondary** and login as root:

    ```
    sudo -i
    ```

1. Update the primary domain's DNS record.

    After updating the primary domain's DNS records to point to the secondary,
    edit `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb` on the the secondary to reflect the new URL:

    ```
    # Change the existing external_url configuration
    external_url 'https://gitlab.example.com'
    ```

1. Reconfigure the secondary node for the change to take effect:

    ```
    gitlab-ctl reconfigure
    ```

1. Execute the command below to update the newly promoted primary node URL:

    ```
    gitlab-rake geo:update_primary_node_url
    ```

    This command will use the changed `external_url` configuration defined
    in `/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`.

1. Verify you can connect to the newly promoted primary using the primary URL.

    If you updated the DNS records for the primary domain, these changes may
    not have yet propagated depending on the previous DNS records TTL.

### Step 4. (Optional) Add secondary geo replicas to a promoted primary

Promoting a secondary to primary using the process above does not enable
GitLab Geo on the new primary.

To bring a new secondary online, follow the [GitLab Geo setup instructions](
README.md#setup-instructions).
