qa/README.md, before:

# GitLab QA - Integration tests for GitLab

This directory contains integration tests for GitLab.

It is part of the [GitLab QA project](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-qa).

## What is it?

GitLab QA is an integration tests suite for GitLab.

These are black-box and entirely click-driven integration tests you can run
against any existing instance.

## How does it work?

1. When we release a new version of GitLab, we build a Docker images for it.
1. Along with GitLab Docker Images we also build and publish GitLab QA images.
1. GitLab QA project uses these images to execute integration tests.

## How can I use it?

You can use GitLab QA to exercise tests on any live instance! For example, the
following call would login to a local [GDK] instance and run all specs in
`qa/specs/features`:

```
bin/qa Test::Instance http://localhost:3000
```

### Running specific tests

You can also supply specific tests to run as another parameter. For example, to
test the EE license specs, you can run:

```
EE_LICENSE="<YOUR LICENSE KEY>" bin/qa Test::Instance http://localhost qa/specs/features/ee
```

Since the arguments would be passed to `rspec`, you could use all `rspec`
options there. For example, passing `--backtrace` and also line number:

```
bin/qa Test::Instance http://localhost qa/specs/features/login/standard_spec.rb:3 --backtrace
```

### Overriding the authenticated user

Unless told otherwise, the QA tests will run as the default `root` user seeded
by the GDK.

If you need to authenticate as a different user, you can provide the
`GITLAB_USERNAME` and `GITLAB_PASSWORD` environment variables:

```
GITLAB_USERNAME=jsmith GITLAB_PASSWORD=password bin/qa Test::Instance https://gitlab.example.com
```

All [supported environment variables are here](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-qa#supported-environment-variables).

[GDK]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-development-kit/

Commit message:

Added Rakefile with DEV specific commands to build docker images
Docker local tag will contain local code, so we can test them locally

qa/README.md, after:

# GitLab QA - Integration tests for GitLab

This directory contains integration tests for GitLab.

It is part of the [GitLab QA project](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-qa).

## What is it?

GitLab QA is an integration tests suite for GitLab.

These are black-box and entirely click-driven integration tests you can run
against any existing instance.

## How does it work?

1. When we release a new version of GitLab, we build a Docker images for it.
1. Along with GitLab Docker Images we also build and publish GitLab QA images.
1. GitLab QA project uses these images to execute integration tests.

## How can I use it?

You can use GitLab QA to exercise tests on any live instance! For example, the
following call would login to a local [GDK] instance and run all specs in
`qa/specs/features`:

```
bin/qa Test::Instance http://localhost:3000
```

### Running specific tests

You can also supply specific tests to run as another parameter. For example, to
test the EE license specs, you can run:

```
EE_LICENSE="<YOUR LICENSE KEY>" bin/qa Test::Instance http://localhost qa/specs/features/ee
```

Since the arguments would be passed to `rspec`, you could use all `rspec`
options there. For example, passing `--backtrace` and also line number:

```
bin/qa Test::Instance http://localhost qa/specs/features/login/standard_spec.rb:3 --backtrace
```

### Overriding the authenticated user

Unless told otherwise, the QA tests will run as the default `root` user seeded
by the GDK.

If you need to authenticate as a different user, you can provide the
`GITLAB_USERNAME` and `GITLAB_PASSWORD` environment variables:

```
GITLAB_USERNAME=jsmith GITLAB_PASSWORD=password bin/qa Test::Instance https://gitlab.example.com
```

All [supported environment variables are here](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-qa#supported-environment-variables).

### Rebuilding docker images

For development purpose, you can patch the `nigthly` images with changed code available in your machine.
This allows for faster iteration, and allows you to test the changes in the same environment that will be run by GitLab CI.

Locally patched images are tagged as `local`, and can be build by one of the commands bellow:

```bash
rake dev:build_gitlab_ce_docker  # Build Gitlab CE Docker image based on nightly with local code
rake dev:build_gitlab_ee_docker  # Build Gitlab EE Docker image based on nightly with local code
rake dev:build_qa_docker         # Build QA Docker image based on nightly with local code
```

You can use the custom patched images to execute `gitlab-qa` with local changes, like this example:

```bash
gitlab-qa Test::Integration::Geo gitlab/gitlab-ee:local
```

[GDK]: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-development-kit/
